---
layout: post
title: "About the Stuyvesant Political Review"
date: 2025-12-31
author: The SPR Editorial Board
image: /assets/images/articles/stuymain.png
caption: Entrance of Stuyvesant High School via Getty Images
categories: "meta"
excerpt: "What is the Stuyvesant Political Review? Well, this is a brief introduction to our organization and goals."
---

The Stuyvesant Political Review (SPR) is Stuyvesant High School's publication of politics and public policy. We were founded in 2025 and we write about local, national and international affairs as accurately as possible. Politics is a decisive topic, especially today, and it can be especially complex with competing interests and information, so we’ve decided to write about it! We’re hoping that this gives students the chance to research, write and publish articles relating to what matters to them and what our peers should hear about.

We print a magazine every year and we update our website with new articles on regularly. We're relatively small and are a new publication, but we try our best to publish well supported and in-depth articles about a variety of topics. We're thankful to the Stuyvesant Student Union, Parents Association and Administration for their aid in the publishing process.

If you’re interested in joining us, we host meetings almost every Tuesday in room 411, as you can see on our [Epsilon](https://epsilon.stuysu.org/stuypoli/), and have our own website and social medias that you should take a look at. We’ll be publishing more in the future and are always looking for new people to come and join us. Regardless of your political views, as long as you remain respectful, informed and willing to learn, then you’ll be welcome here.
