---
layout: post
title: "A Guide to Fixing the Education System"
date: 2026-02-15
author: Violet S. Tran
image: /assets/images/articles/dept_of_education.png
caption: Department of Education Illustration for the SPR
categories: "national"
excerpt: "SATIRE: The American education system is failing millions and there is one clear solution. Restoring traditional values for a brighter, whiter America."
---
###### Disclaimer: This article is a work of satire, and the review is firmly against the views presented. While this should be self-evident we aim to be transparent in this matter.

The American education system is failing millions of young people who can no longer get the education they deserve. Our public schools are not being properly suited to the needs of communities and this is leading to untold increases in crime and lawlessness across our country. It is true that our students score lower than other developed nations but this alone doesn’t paint the full picture. To understand that, we need to look at why we have an education system in the first place. 

Around the advent of industrialization, many enlightened minds realized the importance of education to instill discipline and obedience into the young minds that would grow into the workers of tomorrow. Without these traits, workers could become rowdy and form unions which monopolize labour and end up harming the common man by raising prices. To create an efficient and obedient workforce, education from a young age is the best route. While it prevents them from working at a young age, they provide more use to society in the long run.

Not everyone should carry the stain of being a common worker however, for we need the lawyers, managers, politicians and business people of the world and thus a better education is required. This is why we created higher education systems with elite private institutions to guide the future generations of leaders. This distinction is key as we should not aim for equal education for everyone, instead aiming to educate based on a persons’ predetermined purpose.

The issue today is that many do not understand this. Our schools aren’t failing due to supposed inequality, rather they are failing due to harmful changes in the system. It has become fashionable to measure education through the narrow lens of “academic excellence,” as though the purpose of schooling were to cultivate curiosity or social mobility. From a historical standpoint this is false. Education, particularly in a stable and morally just society such as our own, is not primarily about intellectual flourishing but in the maintenance of order and tradition. Public schooling was never designed around fanciful metrics of learning and treating it as such will only lead to more confusion and disobedience.

The problem, of course, is that we have drifted from the original purpose. Schools once understood that their duty was to prepare students for the real world but now we have schools pushing ideologies and indoctrination. Reformists cry on about critical thinking, but critical thinking about what exactly? Do we want a generation that grows up constantly questioning the decisions, past and present of our government? We shouldn’t be teaching kids to be ashamed of their history. We should focus on instilling patriotic values and only teaching what needs to be taught. Thus, I propose a simple plan to right the wrongs of the past century, and help us work towards restoring a brighter, whiter America.

Firstly, we need to restore traditional societal norms. America was built on Judeo-Christan values and claiming otherwise would be a falsehood. It is a serious issue that schools are censoring history and the truth by pushing twisted liberal viewpoints that have led to anarchy and the disrespecting of traditions and authority. To fix this, it is imperative that people understand their place in society. Just as how every cog in a watch helps it function, so too does every person help a society function, but if and only if we play our part. It is a noble goal to want to improve your life, but not everyone can be rich. This is the natural state of the world as Darwin showed with his theory of survival of the fittest.

Not conforming to societal expectations is inherently immoral and harms society as a whole. Schools are actively pushing for diversity and equality but this is misguided. To make our country great, we need a cohesive society where we share common values and goals, but when schools are promoting gender ideology and sexual deviance this cannot be achieved. To prevent this blatant propaganda, we need to prohibit books and materials from the classroom which are harming children and ruining our society.

Secondly, education must be further privatized. Public schools have long suffered from the fatal flaw of being public. To correct this, we must ensure that the government moves towards funding private education. We need to reinstate the systems of our past which have kept education separated by ability. IQ tests have shown that certain peoples have higher learning abilities and thus, we should have education prioritize these peoples. 

Beyond private schools there has been an amazing growth in internet enabled learning and we must take advantage of this. Since we are facing such a teaching crisis we must utilize technology to fill the gaps. Government approved A.I. systems would greatly benefit the undesirables while human teachers can prioritize desirable students and help them grow into the leaders they were born to be. Online educational resources created by private companies such as PragerU have already been approved in multiple states so it is only natural to expand this nationwide.

Finally, we must eliminate the distractions of modern schooling. Extracurricular activities including but not limited to the arts, music, sports, debate, etc…, at first glance may appear beneficial, but they encourage a focus on personal ideas rather than societal duty. Time spent learning to draw or dance could instead be spent learning about the founding fathers, mastering basic arithmetic, or learning how to fix machinery. While this doesn’t apply to all peoples equally, students must be trained to be focused on their role in society, anything else is a waste of taxpayer resources.  

Even worse, focusing on these trivial pursuits takes away from the purpose of schooling as we’ve established. Schools should prepare students for their future jobs. While a child may enjoy painting a landscape or practicing a musical instrument, these activities contribute little to understanding the responsibilities that help communities function. Unifying the curriculum toward essential knowledge and removing these extracurriculars ensures that attention and funds are invested where they matter most. 

The path to fixing America’s education system is simple. We need to restore traditional values, prioritize elite instruction, leverage technology to sort the capable from the incapable, and eliminate distractions that undermine our societal goals. Education is not about fairness or wants, it should ideally, prepare the next generation for their proper roles and ensure that our society functions like a well-oiled machine. By returning to these principles, we can safeguard our children, our culture, and our future, and ensure that America remains great, because greatness is achieved not by questioning, but by knowing your place and excelling within it.